+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                Luke Potter's URLyBird application User Guide                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Table of Contents:
1. Overview
2. Running the URLyBird Application
3. Application Properties
4. Using the Client GUI
5. Using the Server GUI





1. URLyBird Application Overview
The URLyBird application is designed to enable Customer Service Representatives
(CSRs) to book hotel rooms on behalf their customers. It also allows the CSR to
view available rooms and to search for rooms by hotel name and/or location
values. The list of rooms is retrieved from a database file, which can be
accessed either locally or over the network.





2. Running the URLyBird Application
The URLyBird application can be run in three possible modes;
 * Networked Client,
 * Server,
 * and, Standalone Client.


2.1. Networked Client
This application mode opens a Client GUI instance. The Client connects to a
running RMI Server Instance. The Client GUI interacts with the database via the
network. To start the URLyBird application in networked client mode, pass the
following Command Line arguments.
    java -jar runme.jar


2.2. Server
This application mode opens a Server GUI instance. When in this mode, the
URLyBird application starts the RMI connections. This accepts incoming network
requests from the URLyBird Client instances. To start the URLyBird application
in server mode, pass the following Command Line arguments.
    java -jar runme.jar server


2.3. Standalone Client
This application mode opens a Client GUI instance. The Client connects
directly to the database. There are no RMI network requests sent. To start the
URLyBird application in standalone client mode, pass the following Command Line
Arguments.
    java -jar runme.jar alone






3. Application Properties
Each of the three modes that the URLyBird application can be started in requires
properties.
 * The Networked Client mode requires the "rmiHostname" and
   "rmiPortNumber" properties.
 * The Server mode requires the "pathToDatabaseFile", "rmiHostname" and
   "rmiPortNumber" properties.
 * The Standalone Client mode requires the "pathToDatabaseFile" property.

These properties need to be defined in the suncertify.properties file, which
must be located in the current directory.

Example of the suncertify.properties file.
    pathToDatabaseFile=db-1x1.db
    rmiHostname=localhost
    rmiPortNumber=1234

The suncertify.properties file needs to be present before the application is
run.





4. Using the Client GUI

4.1. Opening the Client GUI
On starting, the Client GUI will check for the properties it requires. It will
fail if the required properties are not present in the suncertify.properties
file.

Then the Client GUI will prompt you for your CSR number. This will be the id
used to book rows for the duration of this GUI's existence. Enter your CSR
number, which is eight digits, and click the "OK" button.

The Client GUI will open and display the current contents of the database file
in its table.


4.2. Search Function
To search for a room, enter its Hotel name and/or its location in the text
fields labeled "Name" and "Location". If one or more of the text boxes are left
blank, they will be taken as wildcards and match all values.

Consider the following cases;
 * If the "Name" text box is left blank and the "Location" text box has the
   value "Whoville", all the hotels in Whoville will be returned, should they
   exist.
 * If the "Name" text box has the value "Palace" and the "Location" text box is
   left blank, all the locations where the Palace hotels are will be returned,
   should they exist.
 * If the "Name" text box has the value "Palace" and the "Location" text box has
   the value "Whoville", the Palace hotel in Whoville will be returned, should
   it exist.

To reset the search filter, and display all the records again, remove any text
from the "Name" and "Location" text boxes and click the "Search" button.


4.3. Making a Booking
To book a hotel room, click on the record you wish to book, then click the
"Book" button. A dialog box will appear asking for the start date, either
"Today" or "Tomorrow". After a selection is made, a second dialog box will
appear, asking for the end date of the booking. The end date must be supplied in
the format of "yyyy/MM/dd", e.g. "2014/05/30" for May 30th 2014. The record will
be booked and the table of records in the GUI will be refreshed.


4.4. Refreshing the Table of Results
To get the latest information on which rooms are free you need to manually
refresh the client GUI's table. This is done by completing the following steps.
 1. Clear the "Name" and "Location" Text Fields.
 2. Click the "Search" Button.

The table of records in the Client GUI will be refreshed with the latest data.


4.5. Exiting the Client GUI
To exit the Client GUI, click the "x" button on the application window.




5. Using the Server GUI

5.1. Opening the Server GUI
On starting, the Server GUI will check for the properties it requires. It will
fail if the required properties are not present in the suncertify.properties
file.

The Server GUI will appear. It will have values loaded into its text fields from
the suncertify.properties file. These properties can be edited. The updated
properties will have their values persisted in the suncertify.properties file.

Clicking the "Start Server" button will cause the RMI server to start. It will
use the values in the text fields to locate the database file, and to create the
RMI URL that the Networked Client will need to use to connect to the server in
order to function.


5.2 Exiting the Server GUI
To exit the Server GUI, click the "x" button on the application window. This
will end the RMI server process. Networked clients will no longer be able to
connect to this server instance.